this is a 300 horsepower mercury Promax
EFI 3 3 liter engine we just tore into
it find out what kind of damage it had
we had detonation on the number 6
cylinder which put a hole through the
water jacket on the block side and there
is also a hole on the crankcase side as
well this isn't weldable being in the
water passage here this is what's left
of the piston it's completely melted
down into pieces this is the rod for
this cylinder crankshaft appears to be
okay there is no pitting or signs of
excessive heat on any of the journals
the rest of the Pistons
there's a little bit of transfer from
heat other than that everything was was
performing alright the lubrication was
ok all the Pistons are have oil all the
damage was due a lean measure the lean
mixture was caused by a two-piece fuel
line that is going to be on the boat and
what the ethanol fuel is doing is
breaking it down and the inner lining of
it is turning into a jelly it turns into
those little red chunks and actually
passes through the filter and into the
injection system and it causes to lean
out an injector and this is the damage
that occurred by
so the injector on the cylinder will
need to be replaced as well as the block
the rod and due to transfer there was an
additional rod that had a good chunk
that will also have to be replaced
oh let me see it yeah cannot see that
nope still can't see okay there this
shine your light on it
oh no but just shines back okay so that
little pit right there
that rod will as well also have to be
replaced when the raw when the piston
came off it did
how'd it work
this is the hole on the other side of
the crankcase here and this is the reed
block assembly the rod has come back and
hit and it is cracked and busted the
reed okay which will also have to be
replaced and this fuel line will need to
be taken off the boat it'll be a grey
fuel line you could take it off and if
you split the hose in half you should
see some of the remaining inner lining
of the hose when you cut it open and
that is the issue with this end okay
that's what happened to this 300 from a
sci-fi romance EFI